README.md, before:

# logback-raygun


A logback appender that emits details to [raygun.io](http://raygun.io/).  It requires Java 8.

## Getting it

````
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.fatboyindustrial.logback-raygun</groupId>
  <artifactId>logback-raygun</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
````

## Configuration

````
<configuration>
  <appender name="RAYGUN" class="com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunAppender">
    <apiKey><!-- insert key here --></apiKey>

    <!-- Deny all events with a level below WARN, that is: TRACE, DEBUG, INFO. -->
    <filter class="ch.qos.logback.classic.filter.ThresholdFilter">
      <level>WARN</level>
    </filter>
  </appender>

  <root level="DEBUG">
    <appender-ref ref="RAYGUN"/>
  </root>

</configuration>
````

Any `WARN` or `ERROR` log messages will be posted to raygun.  If the message contains an exception, then those exception details will be included.  If no exception is included, then the log message is reported, with a synthesised 1 element long stack trace of the log message call-site.

## Log with an exception

The line:

````
LOG.warn("oh no, not again",
    new RuntimeException(
        new UnsupportedOperationException("petunias can't fly", 
            new InputMismatchException())));
````

... produces:

**Message** oh no, not again; java.lang.RuntimeException: java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: petunias can't fly; caused by: java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: petunias can't fly; caused by: java.util.InputMismatchException

**Class Name** java.lang.RuntimeException

**Stack Trace**

````
oh no, not again; java.lang.RuntimeException: java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: petunias can't fly; caused by: java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: petunias can't fly; caused by: java.util.InputMismatchException
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.three in OtherClass.java:55
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.two in OtherClass.java:50
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.one in OtherClass.java:45
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.abc in OtherClass.java:40
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.baz in RaygunTestApp.java:62
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.bar in RaygunTestApp.java:57
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.foo in RaygunTestApp.java:52
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.entry in RaygunTestApp.java:47
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.main in RaygunTestApp.java:41

Caused by; java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: petunias can't fly; caused by: java.util.InputMismatchException
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.three in OtherClass.java:55
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.two in OtherClass.java:50
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.one in OtherClass.java:45
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.abc in OtherClass.java:40
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.baz in RaygunTestApp.java:62
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.bar in RaygunTestApp.java:57
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.foo in RaygunTestApp.java:52
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.entry in RaygunTestApp.java:47
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.main in RaygunTestApp.java:41

Caused by; java.util.InputMismatchException
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.three in OtherClass.java:55
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.two in OtherClass.java:50
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.one in OtherClass.java:45
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.abc in OtherClass.java:40
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.baz in RaygunTestApp.java:62
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.bar in RaygunTestApp.java:57
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.foo in RaygunTestApp.java:52
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.entry in RaygunTestApp.java:47
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.main in RaygunTestApp.java:41

````

## Log without an exception

The line:

````
LOG.warn("I hope it will be friends with me.");
````

... produces:

**Message** I hope it will be friends with me.

**Class Name** com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass

**Stack Trace**

````
I hope it will be friends with me.
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.three in OtherClass.java:53
````

Commit message:

Update README with description of how to use named API keys.

README.md, after:

# logback-raygun


A logback appender that emits details to [raygun.io](http://raygun.io/).  It requires Java 8.

## Getting it

````
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.fatboyindustrial.logback-raygun</groupId>
  <artifactId>logback-raygun</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
````

## Configuration

````
<configuration>
  <appender name="RAYGUN" class="com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunAppender">
    <apiKey><!-- insert key here --></apiKey>

    <!-- Deny all events with a level below WARN, that is: TRACE, DEBUG, INFO. -->
    <filter class="ch.qos.logback.classic.filter.ThresholdFilter">
      <level>WARN</level>
    </filter>
  </appender>

  <root level="DEBUG">
    <appender-ref ref="RAYGUN"/>
  </root>

</configuration>
````

Any `WARN` or `ERROR` log messages will be posted to raygun.  If the message contains an exception, then those exception details will be included.  If no exception is included, then the log message is reported, with a synthesised 1 element long stack trace of the log message call-site.

### Multiple API keys

It is possible to specify multiple API keys that apply to particular named hosts.  This allows different hosts to log to different raygun applications (such as a testing environment application vs a production environment application).

When named API keys are used, raygun messages are suppressed if the hostname doesn't match a named entry.  Named API keys use the following syntax:

````
  <apiKey>vogon:OpjzfzXvHooFqjyhT5311g== desiato:DYkfAazxL/HxiwnhtRkAvA==</apiKey>
````

The machine name (as reported by `InetAddress.getLocalHost().getHostName()`) is followed by a colon `:`, then the API key.  Entries are separated by a space.

## Log with an exception

The line:

````
LOG.warn("oh no, not again",
    new RuntimeException(
        new UnsupportedOperationException("petunias can't fly", 
            new InputMismatchException())));
````

... produces:

**Message** oh no, not again; java.lang.RuntimeException: java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: petunias can't fly; caused by: java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: petunias can't fly; caused by: java.util.InputMismatchException

**Class Name** java.lang.RuntimeException

**Stack Trace**

````
oh no, not again; java.lang.RuntimeException: java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: petunias can't fly; caused by: java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: petunias can't fly; caused by: java.util.InputMismatchException
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.three in OtherClass.java:55
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.two in OtherClass.java:50
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.one in OtherClass.java:45
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.abc in OtherClass.java:40
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.baz in RaygunTestApp.java:62
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.bar in RaygunTestApp.java:57
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.foo in RaygunTestApp.java:52
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.entry in RaygunTestApp.java:47
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.main in RaygunTestApp.java:41

Caused by; java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: petunias can't fly; caused by: java.util.InputMismatchException
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.three in OtherClass.java:55
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.two in OtherClass.java:50
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.one in OtherClass.java:45
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.abc in OtherClass.java:40
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.baz in RaygunTestApp.java:62
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.bar in RaygunTestApp.java:57
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.foo in RaygunTestApp.java:52
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.entry in RaygunTestApp.java:47
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.main in RaygunTestApp.java:41

Caused by; java.util.InputMismatchException
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.three in OtherClass.java:55
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.two in OtherClass.java:50
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.one in OtherClass.java:45
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.abc in OtherClass.java:40
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.baz in RaygunTestApp.java:62
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.bar in RaygunTestApp.java:57
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.foo in RaygunTestApp.java:52
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.entry in RaygunTestApp.java:47
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.RaygunTestApp.main in RaygunTestApp.java:41

````

## Log without an exception

The line:

````
LOG.warn("I hope it will be friends with me.");
````

... produces:

**Message** I hope it will be friends with me.

**Class Name** com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass

**Stack Trace**

````
I hope it will be friends with me.
    com.fatboyindustrial.raygun.OtherClass.three in OtherClass.java:53
````
